I"œ<p>In the Fall of 2019 I applied for an NSF sponsored internship with the NSF-MSGI program. The purpose of this program is to give graduate students an opportunity to solve ‚Äúreal world‚Äù problems, regardless of the student‚Äôs intentions to pursue a nonacademic career. The application process is pretty simple; you tell them why you want the internship, what you‚Äôre capable of, and you select a few projects on their page which you think sound interesting. I wanted to learn more about machine learning by working on an interesting problem, and I wanted to gain more experience doing work in a non-academic setting, so this seemed like the perfect fit for me. That‚Äôs exactly what I put on my application, in a nutshell, and in March I got the acceptance email. I was in disbelief. Not only did I win a competetive award, but the project I was assigned to was my top choice. The project was titled ‚ÄúImproving Nuclear Data Estimates and Uncertainties Using Machine Learning‚Äù and this is the description that the mentors provided:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>The goal of this project is to utilize machine learning methods to improve the quality of estimates of nuclear reaction cross sections and their uncertainties in nuclear databases.  These nuclear data are critical for understanding and modeling nuclear physics in reactors and other scientific applications. These estimates are obtained using a statistical combination of complex nuclear physics models and experiments. They are then tested in the simulation of validation experiments, which integrate many sets of nuclear data into one model of a complex experiment. Using machine learning, we have been able to identify previously unidentified relationships between nuclear data estimates and benchmark bias. This project will focus on further advancing the methodology for machine-learning-augmented search for sources of bias in benchmarks and basic nuclear physics experiments to improve nuclear data evaluation.</p>
</blockquote>
:ET